Joe Swanson is the Griffins' neighbor and Peter's friend. He is a paraplegic who also suffers from impotence and incontinence. Despite his disability, Joe still proves to be an extremely skilled police officer, as he is constantly seen pursuing criminals or rescuing victims with the aid of his wheelchair and even goes so far as to abandon his wheelchair to complete his work. He used to live in Providence, Rhode Island. In "A Hero Sits Next Door," Joe mentioned that he got crippled when stopping the Grinch from stealing Christmas from an orphanage. He is usually shown as being very tactful, but he also has severe anger issues (In "Road to Rupert", for example, he overreacts when Peter makes it difficult for him to revoke his driving licence). He is married to Bonnie Swanson, who was once pregnant for many years. She and he had a son named Kevin who staged his own death in Iraq.[2] He also has an infant daughter, Susie. He has a glass eye, as a result of Peter in the episode "Lottery Fever." In "Joe's Revenge," it is revealed that Swanson's story about being crippled during a fight with the Grinch was a cover-up. Joe Swanson was actually crippled by Bobby "The Shirt" Briggs, a criminal running a heroin operation whom Swanson was pursuing in an undercover police operation. Joe mentions that he is called "The Shirt" because of Brigg's strange habit of always wearing a shirt while committing his crimes. After 15 years, Bobby Briggs was arrested, but he escaped during an open house at the prison. Joe Swanson asked the police chief to allow him to pursue Briggs but was denied. Joe decided to ignore the chief's order and pursue Briggs with the assistance of Peter Griffin and Quagmire. When Joe tracks down Bobby to Atlantic City, the trio pursue Briggs over rooftops and into the streets, where he escapes. Joe, Peter, and Quagmire are then arrested by two "police officers" for interfering in the police case. Joe soon discovers that the police officers were actually associates of Bobby Briggs. They escape and learn that Briggs is planning to travel to Juárez, Mexico. Joe finds Bobby in traffic to Mexico, where they end up in a fight. Joe eventually has Briggs at gunpoint. Joe fires an intended non-lethal shot at Bobby's legs, in order to cripple him and get his revenge, but ultimately Briggs bleeds to death. His body is then kicked into a river leading to Mexico.